- **July 7**: Fundamental SQL queries and database fundamentals such as ACID property.
- **July 8**: Earned a Git certification from Datacamp which covered essential Git commands, from cloning, pulling, pushing, rebasing and merging.
- **July 9**: Practiced some Java problems to clear up concepts which can be found in the "Java Problems" directory. Also completed the Github Certification which covered essentials of GitHub from PRs to team management.
- **July 10**: To get the big picture of Java web programming I learned how to write a simple web-app with an embedded tomcat and the servlet API. This showed me how to shade my Maven project and how to build .jar files. Apart from that I learned how to write basic String based HTML and JSON via the servlet API and handing JSON with the Jackson 3rd party dependency. I sneak peeked into dependency injection by handling dependencies manually - active and passive dependency injection.
On top of that I learned how to add Spring to a project with a single dependency, created my first ApplicationContextConfiguration with @Configuration and @Bean annotations. Other than that I saw how @Beans are singletons by defualt and how to change their scope (prototype). I also used @Component, @ComponentScan and learned about different types of DI (Constructor, Field, Setter). Also learned about profiles and how it can affect specific application.properties files.
I also learned about Spring MVC, replaced my HttpServlet with DispatcherServlet, learned about @RestControllers, handled content negotiation, learned about various ways of accepting request params, path variables and request bodies. Finally, I learned how to validate beans or parameters while changing exceptions with RestControllerAdvice.
- **July 11**: Learned how to setup and connect Thymeleaf with Spring, how to render some HTML with the Thymeleaf syntax and submitting + validating form fields.
I learned how to embed H2 Database, what DataSources are and used JdbcTemplate and @Transactional to get a taste of Spring's transaction management.
I learned how Spring Boot actually does a lot of the configurations itself - embedding Tomcat, generating certain @Beans automatically and how it makes dependency management much easier.
- **July 14**: I saw some internal Spring Boot code, how AutoConfigurations worked and wrote a simple AutoConfiguration of my own to test it out. Learned how to connect repositories to a project by interfacing the CrudRepository of Spring Data JDBC. Learned a couple of more JOINs.
- **July 15**: Learned about Collections, Lambdas, Streams, Optionals, working with dates/times and much more. Started working on the project proposal as well.